README.md, before:

WikiEnergy
==========

Disaggregator
-------------
This repository contains a set of tools for performing end-to-end
disaggregation of single-point energy signals at a low-resolution timescale of
15 minutes, including algorithms for supervised and unsupervised classification
of streaming signals. For a set of tools designed for evaluating and measuring
the effectiveness of new algorithms, please instead use
[nilmtk](https://github.com/nilmtk/nilmtk/) (Non-Intrusive Load
Monitoring Toolkit), which is designed with the needs of researchers in mind.


How to use this toolkit
-----------------------
Quick-start documentation and iPython notebook tutorials can be found in the
[docs](https://github.com/dssg/wikienergy/tree/master/docs) directory.

Background
----------
Energy efficiency makes up over half of the potential carbon reduction that
the world needs to combat climate change. However, individual homeowners are
often left in the dark as to what actions they can take to permanently reduce
their energy use while maintaining the same quality of life. This project is
focused on building open-source tools for smart meter data that will make it
easier for homeowners to know what actions they can take to reduce their energy
use. It will use the largest database of smart meter data available to
researchers through a partnership with Pecan Street, a nonprofit based out of
Austin, Texas with a mission to make energy efficiency easy and affordable
for every American.


Parners
-------
- Pecan Street/WikiEnergy
- Oak Park

Team members
------------
 - Stephen Suffian
 - Phil Ngo
 - Miguel Perez
 - Sabina Tomkins
 - Matthew Gee
 - Varun Chandola

Commit message:

project partner links
Former-commit-id: d3ccaa20f7ccaa51a8675bdd7e72088295a5c0f3
Former-commit-id: bc5bab9791b83d5f2782c8640cb1bd961e43cf66

README.md, after:

WikiEnergy
==========

Disaggregator
-------------
This repository contains a set of tools for performing end-to-end
disaggregation of single-point energy signals at a low-resolution timescale of
15 minutes, including algorithms for supervised and unsupervised classification
of streaming signals. For a set of tools designed for evaluating and measuring
the effectiveness of new algorithms, please instead use
[nilmtk](https://github.com/nilmtk/nilmtk/) (Non-Intrusive Load
Monitoring Toolkit), which is designed with the needs of researchers in mind.


How to use this toolkit
-----------------------
Quick-start documentation and iPython notebook tutorials can be found in the
[docs](https://github.com/dssg/wikienergy/tree/master/docs) directory.

Background
----------
As environmental sustainability becomes a fundamental societal goal worldwide,
it fuels the design of efficient energy systems. Increasingly, homes around
the world are now equipped with “smart meters”, which measure a residence’s
power usage at high time resolution and report to utilities for billing
purposes. The data generated by these meters can also serve a valuable
purpose in the fight against energy waste and environmental damage, informing
homeowners about their own energy usage to help them reduce their energy
footprint and save money.

Texas-based non-profit Pecan Street researches and develops new ways to make
energy efficiency easy and affordable to Americans, and has collected the
world’s largest open database of consumer energy information: WikiEnergy. DSSG
will work with this rich source of residential smart meter data to offer new
insights to homeowners who seek to be more energy efficient. For example, a
model may infer appliance-level usage patterns that identify wasteful
appliances that should be replaced, provide savings advice based on future
consumption forecasts, or use weather information to help homeowners optimize
thermostat settings to conserve energy. These tools will connect consumers with
the powerful data generated by smart meters and help move the needle on energy
savings.

Parners
-------
- [Pecan Street/WikiEnergy](http://www.pecanstreet.org/)
- [Village of Oak Park](http://www.oak-park.us/)
- [Elevate Energy](http://www.elevateenergy.org/)
- [Illinois Science & Energy Innovation Foundation | ISEIF](http://www.iseif.org/)
- [ComEd](https://www.comed.com/)

Team members
------------
 - Stephen Suffian
 - Phil Ngo
 - Miguel Perez
 - Sabina Tomkins
 - Matthew Gee
 - Varun Chandola
